so i've been at wakme almost four years
and when i joined about four years ago
walkme was a very heavily enterprise
focused organization really focused on
field sales big deals big lands
fortune 500 companies and the idea was
could we take this complex highly
customized tool
and sell it with an inside sales team
now what is an inside sales team this
means people sitting at home in the
comfort at home now back in the day at
their desks selling via zoom right so
less field cells less hitting the ground
running less
less whining and dining and more of a
repeatable process
efficiency fast sail cycle
ideally one that is a lower resource
and could efficiently and effectively
cell walk me so that was the challenge i
walked into several years ago
over my four years we've seen dramatic
improvements across the board and i'll
walk through some of these metrics and
and how we did it today so increase
conversion rates by 150 percent grew asp
by 4x average sales price
increased our renewal rates by 10
percent and hit that holy grail of
attainment of 80 percent of the team
hitting 80 of their number
uh when i came in i had 16 uh head count
and now i've got close to 50. and this
past june walk me ipo'd i was very proud
to get to go on stage on the nasdaq and
ring the bell we got lucky we we
threaded the needle and got to go to new
york and those few weeks in june when
everyone thought covid was over was a
really wonderful and euphoric
celebration that i'm very fortunate i
got to be a part of
so i'm going to walk you today on how i
did it how i took this team from just a
few
inside sales reps to a big high
performing team that was able to ipo
so let's start off with why did walkme
want to invest in inside sales if we're
doing field sales well if we're you know
having a great uh
you know great time with field sales big
deals big whales why even invest in
inside sales well a few reasons one it's
high velocity it lends to predictable
revenue so you have these big deals
you're trying to close throughout the
year inside sales provides a monthly
recurring revenue stream that you can
rely on it's fast cycles which means
that you can iterate you can experiment
you can try things it's really hard to
experiment with a million dollar deal
you want to do everything by the book
but when you've got fast cycles you can
take some liberties you can try new
things you can test hypotheses and
figure out what's working and what's not
working we kind of call ourselves that
walkman the innovation hub
this is where we test things out it's
our breeding ground for new ideas i'm
proud to say that the pricing model at
walkme was created within my team and
the commercial team we kept trying new
ideas we came up with a pricing model i
called one tooth read that it worked
really well we sold it like hotcakes the
rest of the organization adopted it
it also means you can build a team with
fewer resources it's not as investment
heavy to build this sort of organization
you have a lower sales engineering csm
and bdr ratio which means it's lower
cost to build it
so for for organizations thinking about
trying to get in the lower end of the
market not the fortune 500 you know we
sell to companies anywhere from startups
just a few few employees up to about
four thousand five thousand employees
think you know the drop boxes the
twilios of the world um if you're
thinking about focusing on that market
inside sales might be a great place for
you to start um the final thing to
mention is a talent pipeline so you
heard me mention bdrs before at wakame
we've got this really great talent
funnel you start as an sdr sales
development representative where you're
qualifying inbound leads you move to a
business development representative
where you're doing outbound cold calling
and then you move on to my team and
inside sales where you can learn how to
sell before you move up market into
field sales i'm excited to say that
yesterday anthony i don't know if you're
listening in but one of a bdr we've
moved to my team in october closed his
first deal yesterday
it's always a great moment when we see
these bdrs move on to the sales team and
you know he had a 10 week ramp there was
able to close a deal i'll talk a little
bit more about time to ramp today and
why that's an important metric as well
so let's dig in
all right so you're going to build an
inside sales team where do you start
step one collect data i'm a really big
advocate of starting out with a good crm
tool um you know funny story for my my
startup credentials here i was the first
employee first sales employee at
mixpanel back in
back in the day what was it 2012
employee number eight and when i joined
um they had no crm it was a google
document and i said guys i need a crm
tool i cannot effectively sell i can't
collect data i can't make good decisions
without a crm tool so i actually went
and put salesforce on my own credit card
did the implementation myself i am now a
systems integrator
with salesforce uh mixpanel is probably
still paying the price of having me do
that original implementation i don't
recommend putting it on your sales rep
uh but it was so critical to me even
back then as the only ae that i was
willing to just do the upfront work to
get it done don't make your aes do that
get them a good crm tool sales forces is
the best on the market it's uh it's you
know there's an upfront cost
implementing it but it will pay
dividends
i also highly recommend a forecasting
tool i use clary i love clary it shows
you how your forecasting is changing
over time
it gives you predictive analytics and
how you're trending compared to previous
quarters uh it doesn't let the aes hide
anything from you can see exactly how
their forecast is changing week to week
and then finally my favorite tool is
gong this is a call recording tool
there's also a tool out there called
chorus
what this lets you do is not only
see what's going on with your with your
sales team and understand exactly what's
happening in the calls but give you
analytics around those calls so things
like how many questions are they asking
what is interactivity what sort of
topics are coming up what indicators do
we see indicate or lead to a closed deal
all right so you've you've got your
stack in place you're ready to go the
next step is analyzing your sales funnel
so here's a sample funnel this is uh
what it looked like it walked me at one
point in time so basically deal comes in
you qualify it it's a sales qualified
lead the next step you move it to some
sort of poc or solution design this
might be a trial this might be a custom
demo i put in sample benchmark
conversion rates here you'll see a
pretty high conversion rate between
qualified sales qualified lead and some
sort of proof of concept most people who
come in and and have that initial call
like your product will want to move to
some sort of testing period
you'll also see a fairly high conversion
rate and depends so much on the software
but typically you'll see a fairly high
conversion rate from the solution design
to asking about price where you see a
big drop off typically is asking about
price actually getting through and
negotiating and contracting um so this
is a fairly typical funnel 30 a sort of
industry benchmark from sales qualified
lead to closed one opportunity so you
can take a look at your funnel and say
do i see any red flags are there any
steps here where i see a big drop off
that i'm not expecting so this is the
first thing i did at walkme and i found
something interesting i found that
between stage one and stage three and i
got we're missing a stage two here long
story on that one um but between stage
one and stage three i noticed we had
more like a fifty percent drop off which
ultimately meant we had something more
like a twenty percent conversion rate
and i thought that's weird why are we
losing so many people after the intro
call you should see a pretty high
conversion rate there and i'll dig into
more of that in a second but this should
be your first area where you focus and
you understand
what does my sales process look like
step to step are there any red flags
all right after you've done that the
third part is experiment and this is my
favorite part of my job test hypotheses
what if we try this what if we did this
can we do this should we run a trial
differently should we not do a trial
should we do a paid trial should we
do only custom demos should we uh
try a new pricing model should we price
differently should we present the
pricing at a different point in the
cycle right these are all the things you
can experiment with and start to see how
they impact your cycle and again the
luxury and the beauty of an inside sales
team is you have enough cycles where you
can run this experimentation
so i want to go back to that intro
called drop off and walk a little bit
more about
how i navigated that and the impact that
i had in the organization i'm really
proud of this story um so when i first
joined
as i mentioned i saw about a 50 drop off
rate after that intro call and i thought
what on earth is happening here so first
up gong
looking at these intro calls the first
thing that jumped out at me is we were
doing hour-long intro calls
i thought why on earth do we need an
hour to do that discovery call you know
intro call your typically just tell me
about your organization tell me about
your pain points your typical discovery
call right that rarely takes an hour i
mean maybe a really good sales rep can
extend that to an hour but usually you
see that more about a 30 minute session
so i thought what on earth are we doing
in this intro call so i started
listening to them guess what we were
demoing the product in that intro call
to me this is a big no-no i always tell
my team as a sales rep you've got two
really big pieces of power you've got
two things that a buyer really wants
from you you have the demo and you have
pricing and once you give those up you
really lose your power you lose control
of the cycle they don't need you anymore
so you should hold on to those two
things as long as you can and get as
much as you need from your buyer before
you give up either the demo or your
pricing
we were demoing right off the gates
which means we were probably showing a
pretty shoddy demo it wasn't well put
together it wasn't customized it wasn't
tailored it wasn't thought through we
weren't getting access to power because
we weren't asking them to bring their
executives to the call in return little
give get in return for that demo we were
just giving it to them right out the
gates and then horror of horrors
sometimes we were even giving them
pricing in this original call which blew
my mind um
so what did i do i did a pretty
draconian measure and i said guys we are
no longer allowed to have one hour long
intro calls we are doing a 30 minute
call and we're calling it a discovery
call so i went to the sdr team and had
to say you know change their behavior
instead of cold calling and trying to
get
a one hour long intro call book they had
to get a 30 minute discovery call booked
i had to change our preconditioning
emails this is what to expect in this
email in this call it is not it's not a
demo it is not a demo it is not a demo
it is not a demo it is a discovery call
we're going to learn about your
organization how we could potentially
work together
i got so much pushback from the entire
organization on this
i put this quote and read down at the
bottom because this is what i kept
hearing if i don't demo in the intro
call they won't get the value
i couldn't disagree more with this if
you demo in the intro call they will not
get the value
the intro call should be a discovery
call where we understand what they need
to see what value looks like to the
buyer and then we build a tailored demo
that caters to that it also means we
bring the right people to the table we
have the sales engineer whoever we need
on our site on that call and we run a
well thought through well-structured
demo so this is what we did and guess
what happened
this is probably the most impactful
thing i've done at wakney i don't know
people might disagree with me but this
had such a huge impact on our conversion
rates right away we shot it from 20 to
that holy grail of 30
uh and it was funny i was i was sort of
on a road show shopping this around the
organization saying this is how we
should be running things across the
board not just an inside sales we should
be doing this in field sales we should
do the stock market and i got a lot of
pushback initially
no no no no people need to see a demo
they won't get the value as soon as i
show the results here's what happened
here's our conversion rate you can bet
the entire organization is now doing 30
minute discovery calls so anyway that's
a story i'm really proud of again it
started with the data it started with me
looking at our sales funnel and noticing
a big drop off using gong to figure out
what on earth was going on making a
change it was not easy and seeing a
really fantastic result
so you've heard me drop a lot of metrics
so far today i just want to stop and
pause and and tell you a little bit
about some of the metrics i focus on the
metrics that matter so asp you've heard
me talk about average sales price this
is a really important one this is your
bookings right your annualized um
revenue per deal
you'll hear me talk about conversion
rates so when i talk about conversion
rates i'm usually talking about a sales
qualified lead an opportunity created
through a closed one deal
age is really important average sales
cycle on my team it's about 90 days this
impacts a lot of things from forecasting
to pipelines it's really important to
understand what your average deal age
looks like
time to ramp so you heard me earlier
talk about anthony and how excited i was
to see him close the deal and hit his
quota um in 10 weeks that's a 10 weeks
ramp that is
that is a really critical piece of
information to building out your
expectations your forecasting your
hiring plan the shorter your ramp the
better you'll be um so focusing and
onboarding focusing on making reps
successful at the gates is really
critical to your organization and have a
little bit more on that later on and
then finally breadth of performance so
that 80 by 80 percent it's cheaper it's
better for organization it's better for
the aes it's better for morale um if you
have not just the feed the eagles starve
the vultures plan where you're you're
rewarding really high performers and
starving low performers in an ideal
world you want everybody to be making
roughly their ote right so that's why
breadth of performance is important to
focus on it's fiscally better for the
organization and it's also long term
better for the aes and for retention
rates
all right moving on to another example
asp which i just talked about average
sales price so when i joined walkme and
the inside sales team and the commercial
organization our aries is about eighteen
thousand dollars um and i noticed when i
joined we're closing a lot about 18k
deals uh 18k seemed to be what the reps
started with right out the gate how much
is your your tool cost 18k uh but i did
notice there were a couple of outliers
or a couple of reps who had more like
50k as their asp and i thought what on
earth are those reps doing differently
so i analyzed their calls again going
back to gong and listening their calls
looking at their indicators where were
they giving pricing how are they talking
about pricing what were they doing
differently well for one thing they were
doing it much later in the cycle they
were holding out pricing until really
all the value had been proven until
after the proof of concept after the
demo really after they had executive
buy-in after everything was done only
then were they disclosing pricing the
other thing they were doing i call this
anchoring high they were giving pricing
much much higher they were never just
coming in at 18k they were they were
quoting more like 50k on that or 60k on
the pricing um and this had this you
know anchoring high is is a
pretty well known uh negotiation and
sales tax tactic the higher you anchor
the higher the deal will likely end up
there's very little downside to it
unless you're maybe in an rfp or
everything's done blindly over email i
usually always recommend anchoring as
high as you can
so what do we do we introduce price
floors you don't get credit for a deal
below a certain threshold and of course
the reps immediately moved up to uh that
price form began saying higher and
higher and higher the team asp today i'm
proud to say is much closer to 60 000
which is almost a forex increase of
where it was when i joined the team and
that's a that's a very um uh highly
respectable sales price for an uh an
inside sales team with a 90 day sales
cycle
uh another example renewal rates um so
at some point in my walk me career uh i
was still congratulations you're now
running renewals as well um so the first
thing i did you know i went hired a
couple renewal managers and then i
thought okay how am i going to build the
comp plans you know comp plans to me are
one of the most powerful tools you have
as a sales leader they impact so much of
behavior they impact so much of results
they're really the most important tool
in your belt and i i tell people this a
lot when founders or ceos come to me and
say i'm building a sales team what do i
need to know i say obsess over the comp
plan become a student of the comp plan
i'm gonna you know have one more slide
on that one that i'll get to in a minute
um but what i thought about when i was
designing this comp plan was let me
first look at the data and see if i can
find any indicators of which
organizations are more likely to renew
so ran and crunched all the numbers and
found a couple things that jumped out
one more intuitive than the other the
first was that it turns out the more
people paid for our product the more
likely they were to renew
i don't know if that's intuitive or not
part of that actually surprised me uh
and and there are a lot of reasons i
think you could you could wonder why
this is the case maybe people are just
more invested in something they're
paying more for maybe they value it more
maybe they prioritize it more internally
but it turned out that a higher arr had
a very strong correlation to renewal so
of course what do we want to incentivize
towards bigger deals
the second thing and this one is less
surprising that three-year deals had a
much much much higher renewal rate so it
seems if you invested in the product up
front if you committed for three years
by gosh you were going to make it work
um and so
we uh we leaned really heavily into both
rewarding higher arr and three-year
deals both at the logo acquisition so
this impacted not just my renewal team
but also my new business closers
rewarding them really heavily for
three-year deals and
incentivizing my renewal managers almost
exclusively their job was to go and
convert everybody to three-year deals um
and then if they couldn't get the
three-year deals then the goal was to
increase the arr and that was what we
incentivized around so purely using
sales process here without even getting
into you know the csm world and and you
know customer happiness purely with
sales process and data we were able to
increase our renewal rates by 10
so another way that data can be really
impactful
uh so you heard me talk about comp plans
just now sometimes they're called icps
individual comp plans they are your most
critical tool in your belt to drive
behavior with your sales organization um
you know in a nutshell i would say keep
it simple
don't have too many things you're
driving towards but at the beginning of
the year it's worth sitting down and
thinking what do we care about as an
organization what are we driving towards
is it long-term deals is it bigger deals
is this more deals it's a faster sales
cycle is it more lands are we finding
that our reps are expanding and focusing
all their time and growing existing
customers but we're not getting logos in
the door
our renewals what matter most to you
right now it'll this will vary over time
year over year this will change and it's
okay to change your comp plans year over
year to keep up with your changing
priorities but as an example if you
decide you know what what we care about
right now is that we've got this great
product this is our moment we just need
to land grab we just need to get as many
new customers and new logos as we
possibly can then it's really great to
design a comp plan that over rewards or
overpays for new logos so you could get
say a 1.5 x commission rate or a kicker
on any new logo versus expansion deals
closed um another thing you know i just
talked about the three-year deal so if
you look at a carrot and stick behavior
with three-year deals you could pay a
higher commission rate for a three-year
deal and actually a lower commission
rate not full commission for a one-year
deal and then you'll see a really heavy
drive towards three-year deals
so
when you think about your comp plans at
the beginning of the year analyze your
funnel analyze what matters analyze what
you need and then build your comp plans
to incentivize the behavior that will
bring you
the highest quality
highest retaining customers
all right so i've just done a lot of
talking
in a nutshell
hack your cycle
bring your growth mindset to your sales
cycle bring the concept of growth
hacking where do i see drop off analyze
the data and figure out where can i make
small changes that have major impact on
revenue so changing an intro call from
one hour to 30 minutes
that doesn't seem like a huge change
that doesn't seem like something that
will drive millions of dollars of
revenue but guess what it did
and you can find those sorts of
processes changes within your sales
cycle as well
so now that you've found these great
things like a 30 minute intro call and
you've increased your asp you've
increased your renewal rates how do you
scale it
this is a lot harder than it sounds but
once uh one way that i found to be very
effective is the the qbr so a quarterly
business review is a pretty standard
practice in sales organizations many
sales teams run these like an
opportunity to beat up the sales reps
over the deals they lost we take a very
different approach on my team we have a
very different culture around qbr's it
is our opportunity to showcase all the
amazing experiments we've run and what
the outcomes are where did we fail where
did we succeed what worked what didn't
work and when we find those moments
those aha moments wow this person tried
a whole new type of proof concept and oh
my goodness look at their conversion
rates look how they did this quarter
let's try it everyone try this this is
our new this is our new plan that takes
a a a culture of openness it takes a
culture of change management it takes a
culture of vulnerability to be open
admitting that that you tried something
and it failed or to be open to try
someone else's idea admitting they
they're doing something better than i am
as a personal example here i have always
been very anti-trials i hate trials you
lose control of the deal
you know so much can go wrong i've hated
trials my whole career i came in to walk
me saying nope i'm not doing trials
we're never doing trials and one of my
reps said i'm running trials and they're
working can i show you what i'm doing
and i said yes show me what you're doing
and he had a really good process and it
was working for him and i said you know
what you're right i'm wrong we're going
to adopt this process and roll it out to
the team so it takes a culture and of
open mindedness and vulnerability to be
open to these ideas and to share them
the last thing i'll say on onboarding um
you know
it's so critical that you make sure
you're not you're taking that 30 minute
intro call and you're making that part
of your onboarding program you're not
letting old bad habits seek into your
onboarding you've got to stay really
upfront you've got to keep iterating on
it you've got to make sure as you
onboard and bring in new reps they're
learning all these great tactics as well
and then the last thing is you know now
that you've got these these these great
reps who are experimenting and growing
and scaling and being vulnerable you've
got to promote them from within and give
them an opportunity to be a leader and
then you'll see these results tenfold
so in summary
got the right stack got your right to
the right crm tool the call analysis
tool
analyze the data
innovate and experiment to see what's
working and what's not and then monitor
those critical metrics we talked about
asp sales cycle conversion rate spread
the performance make sure these are all
headed in the right direction and when
you find something that's working scale
in it invest in it invest in your your
aes make sure you're onboarding them
well and give them opportunities to lead
so that's all i've got and i'm happy to
take questions
okay as a vp of sales how much of your
time is spent on evaluating the data
that's a great session that's a great
question and what i've actually found is
that i need to block it on my calendar
so i have a
one hour block once a week with my sales
ops team
to go through data and look for insights
and i try to encourage them to come with
me to me with insights as well
you know which is something i've had to
sort of create as a culture is instead
of coming to me with a task list come to
me or a dashboard that you've created
come to me with insights you're finding
from the dashboard with insights you're
finding from the data versus just
showing the charts that you've built
how are you dealing with the great
resignation what is your target
retention percentage for aes this is a
really good question you know i have to
say i um so i had a baby in november of
last year and i went on maternity leave
and i came back in february and i was
just so caught off guard
by this sort of this great resignation
um in q2
of last year i you know i was so proud
my first three years at walkman i did
not lose a single ae not a single one
i was so proud of that stat and then i
came back from maternity leave and for
the first time i faced a lot of aes
quitting
and it was really shocking for me um
but you know i understand it's it's the
current environment that we're in and so
i you know we had to change a lot of my
my tactics we had to do a lot of
investing in our aes and making sure
that they are happy here that we had the
right leadership in place that they were
getting the training and the tools that
they need that we had adequately
adjusted to the new world of working
remotely i will say it's been one of the
biggest challenges for me this year i
think we finally got the the ship is
righted i haven't had ease leaving
anymore um i'm sure it will continue to
happen because it is the new reality
that we're in but that has been a
challenge i don't know if i've got a
target retention percentage um in the
past i always said 100 because i never
lost anybody
i think probably 80 is a more realistic
goal
what was the time period over which you
grew the team from 16 to 50. that was
about a three year period
do you ever provide pricing intro call
no never never ever ever ever do that
i do not allow my team to do that i get
really upset when they do it it's one of
my big things i'm a stickler about i'm
like you know what if someone's mad at
you that you're not giving pricing the
intro call send them to me send them to
your boss i will tell them why i feel
really strongly about that policy and
i've had a few people actually come to
me and ask me tell me why you feel that
way and i said you know what that's
great i'm on board with you i'm not
gonna have my sales team do that tactic
uh can you share more about the internal
infrastructure how many aes to one
manager and any data insights to share
as to why so the holy grail you
typically see a 7a ease to one manager
you can you can do a little bit more
than that in inside sales you can go up
to eight i don't recommend going beyond
eight because what happens is your
manager becomes so reactive and so
overloaded with jumping on deals they
don't have the ability to coach and it's
really important that they have time in
their day and their schedule to coach
the aes and make them better instead of
just jumping from fire to fire
in terms of essies to aes we've got a
four to one ratio that's gone up and
down over the years at one point i think
we're eight to one where we had to get
really efficient and thoughtful about
how and when to use ses we're a little
bit better now
um
following your change to discovery only
calls with your ies how did you manage
these prospects beyond a non-successful
discovery call i.e nurturing revisiting
etc yeah great question um
you know uh for people who we we
basically called out or didn't move
forward after the disco call we do call
blitzes often i'm a big fan of call
blitzes so um putting uh you know an
hour on on the calendar we all get on
zoom we're all kind of looking at each
other making phone calls back in the day
we were sitting at dusk doing this and
calling all those disco calls that
didn't make it through to the next phase
all right looks like i got one more uh
minute here um
uh
so what what levers do you pull for land
and expand to get more customer share of
wallet um this is a really fascinating
one to me because we've really
really thought a lot about this because
it's so tempting to want to land with an
ela right it's really really tempting
when you are talking to a prospect and
they say i want an enterprise-wide
license i'm looking at a 500 000 deal
and it's so easy to get stars in your
eyes and go for that deal um what we've
really learned the hard way is to cool
cool your heels cool your jets and say
you know what
we find it's best if you work with us by
starting small and growing with us and
that answer builds trust and goodwill
with your customer it's the right thing
for both sides and it means frankly
you're much more likely to close the
deal it's really hard to land with a
massive deal it's really hard to land
with a whale it takes forever it takes a
ton of stakeholder buy-in start small
build the value and grow that is the
right motion for pretty much every sales
organization as tempting as it is to
want to start with a million dollar deal
[Music]
you